Time-series data always offers insights on a variety of subjects, and when it comes to the metropolitan area of Dhaka, it opens up even more perspectives. Dhaka is the capital of Bangladesh, and it is one of the most populated, polluted, and traffic-heavy cities in the world. In order to estimate the roadside and surrounding conditions of the Dhaka metro with healthy or unhealthy states, a multi-sensor time-series primary data was gathered, accumulated, analyzed, modeled, and predicted using a machine learning (ML) algorithm. Here, data is gathered from 24 distinct Dhaka metro avenues. Values for temperature, humidity, and noise were used to produce an ideal dataset. After thorough curing and preprocessing, a dataset of 12-hour time-series data is eventually produced. The final model to forecast the roadside state was created using an optimal ML algorithm. After modeling, an intelligent software with an automated and interactive user interface (UI) was developed to utilize the model. The UI provides the real-time intelligent insights from the current roadside condition of any point of interest. The model performance metrics (accuracy: 90.5%, F1-score: 95.1) were convincing. The anticipated insight is useful for both individual users and the smart city administration to obtain the current roadway conditions. This study can be considered the first thorough investigation into the estimation of real-time roadside conditions in the Dhaka metro utilizing multi-sensor fused time-series data.  Data and related information are available at https://github.com/fahaad23/Data.
Keywords: time-series data, pollution modeling, smart city, machine learning, intelligent systems.
